NAME
       blt_table  -  Geometry  manager that arranges windows in a
       table

SYNOPSIS
       blt_table master ?slave index options?...

       blt_table column master option ?args...?

       blt_table configure slave ?slave...? ?options...?

       blt_table row master option ?args...?

       blt_table forget slave ?slave...?

       blt_table info slave

       blt_table slaves master ?pattern?

       blt_table masters ?pattern?

DESCRIPTION
       The blt_table command is a geometry  manager  for  Tk.  It
       arranges  windows tabularly in a window called the master.
       The table consists of individual rows  and  columns  whose
       spacing  define  its  layout.  Windows, called slaves, are
       positioned in the table by specifying the row and  column.
       Only  one  slave  can be specified at a single position in
       the table.  But slaves may span multiple rows and columns.

       By  default,  blt_table tries to arrange all its slaves in
       the minimum space required. It determines this by querying
       each  slave  window  for  its requested size.  The maximum
       requested height all slaves spanning a particular  row  is
       the  row's  normal size.  Similarly, the maximum requested
       width of all slaves spanning a particular  column  is  the
       column's  normal  size.   This,  in  turn,  specifies  the
       table's size, which is the sum of the normal sizes of  the
       rows  and columns.  The number of rows and columns a table
       contains is determined by the indices specified.  There is
       no mechanism to delete a row or column.

TABLE INDICES
       An  index  references  a row,column position in the table.
       It must be in the form "row,column" where row  and  column
       are  the  respective row and column numbers, starting from
       zero  (0,0 is the upper leftmost  position).  Row and col-
       umn  may also be numeric expressions which are recursively
       evaluated.

SIZE CONSTRAINTS
       You can limit the amount of space  requested  by  a  slave
       window.  By specifying both a minimum and maximum limit in
       which the window's requested size must fall, you can bound
       a window's size.  This affects the calculation of the nor-
       mal size of all rows and columns which it spans. In a sim-
       ilar  fashion, you can directly control the normal size of
       any row or column.

       This provides two features.  Slave windows  must  be  con-
       tained  within  the  rows  and columns they are defined to
       span.  By limiting the size of a row or column,  you  con-
       trol  the  size  of all windows in spanning it. This over-
       rides whatever size the slave  has  requested.   Secondly,
       there's  no  requirement  that a row or column contain any
       slaves. This means you can create horizontal  or  vertical
       spacing by simply setting the row or column limits.

RESIZING
       Blt_table  tries  to fit itself exactly in the master win-
       dow.  It first tries to change the size of the  master  to
       the  table's normal size.  If this fails, it then tries to
       expand or shrink itself to the size  of  the  master.   If
       normal  size  of the table is smaller than the master win-
       dow, the extra space is evenly divided among the  rows  or
       columns.  If  it's  larger,  then  the row and columns are
       shrunk to fit in the master window.  In  both  cases,  the
       rows  and  column  sizes are changed with respect to their
       constraints.

       You can also specify how an individual row or column is to
       be  resized.   For  example, a column may be set to one of
       four modes:

              none   Don't resize the column.

              expand Allow the column to only grow  greater  than
                     its normal width.

              shrink Allow  the  column  to only shrink less than
                     its normal width.

              both   Resize the column in either direction.

CREATING A TABLE
       Tables are created by invoking the blt_table command.

                   blt_table master
       Master is the pathname of  a  window  which  must  already
       exist.  Blt_table will arrange its slave windows inside of
       master.  Slave windows are added by designating the  slave
       window's pathname and table position.

                   blt_table master slave index

TABLE COMMANDS
       The following commands are available for the blt_table:
       blt_table master ?slave index options?...
              Adds  the window slave to the table associated with
              master.  If a table doesn't exist for  master,  one
              is  created.   Master is the pathname of the window
              in which the slave windows will be arranged.  Slave
              is the pathname of the window to be arranged inside
              of master at  the  position  designated  by  index.
              This  command returns the empty string.  Option may
              have any of the values accepted  by  the  blt_table
              configure command.

       blt_table column master configure columnIndex ?options...?
              Queries or modifies the  configuration  options  of
              the  columns  specified.  ColumnIndex may be in one
              of two forms; all (indicating  all  columns)  or  a
              list  of  the  column  indices  to  be  configured.
              Options may have any of the following values:

              -padx pixels
                     Specifies an extra  padding  to  the  normal
                     width  of  the  column.   Pixels  can be any
                     value accepted by Tk_GetPixels.  The default
                     padding is 0.

              -resize mode
                     Indicates  that  the  column  can  expand or
                     shrink from its normal width when the  table
                     is resized.  Mode must be one of the follow-
                     ing: none, expand, shrink, or both.  If mode
                     is   expand  the  width  of  the  column  is
                     expanded if there is extra space in the mas-
                     ter window. If style is shrink its width may
                     be reduced beyond its normal width if  there
                     is  not  enough  space  in  the master.  The
                     default is none.

              -width width
                     Specifies the limits within which the  width
                     of  the  column may expand or shrink.  Width
                     is a list of bounding values.  See the  sec-
                     tion  BOUNDING LIST FORMAT for a description
                     of this list.  By default there are no  con-
                     straints.

       blt_table column master dimension
              Returns the number of columns in the table.

       blt_table column master info columnIndex
              Returns a list of the configuration options for the
              columns specified.  ColumnIndex may be  in  one  of
              two  forms;  all (indicating all columns) or a list
              of column indices.  The column  indices  may  them-
              selves be numeric expressions.
       blt_table column master sizes columnIndex
              Returns  the  sizes  of  the  given  columns in the
              table.  ColumnIndex may be in one of two forms; all
              (indicating  all  columns)  or  a  list  of  column
              indices.  The  column  indices  may  themselves  be
              numeric expressions.

       blt_table configure slave ?slave...? ?options...?
              Queries  or modifies the configuration options of a
              slave in a  table.   If  no  option  is  specified,
              returns  a  list  describing  all  of the available
              options for slave (see Tk_ConfigureInfo for  infor-
              mation  on the format of this list).  Slave must be
              the pathname of a window  already  managed  by  the
              blt_table.   If  option is specified with no value,
              then the command returns a list describing the  one
              named  option  (this  list will be identical to the
              corresponding sublist of the value returned  if  no
              option  is specified).  If one or more option-value
              pairs are specified, then the command modifies  the
              given option(s) to have the given value(s); in this
              case the command returns the empty string.  One  of
              more  slave  windows can be modified (with the same
              options) at the same time.  The following  configu-
              ration options are valid:

              -anchor anchorPos
                     Specifies  how  the  slave  window  will  be
                     arranged if there is extra space in the span
                     surrounding  the  window. Anchorpos may have
                     any of the forms accepted  by  Tk_GetAnchor.
                     For example, if anchorPos is center then the
                     window is centered in the rows  and  columns
                     it  spans; if anchorPos is w then the window
                     will be drawn such it touches  the  leftmost
                     edge  of  the  span. This option defaults to
                     center.

              -columnspan number
                     Specifies the number of columns  spanned  by
                     the slave. The default span is 1.

              -fill style
                     Indicates if the slave should be expanded to
                     occupy any extra space in the  span.   Style
                     must  be  one  of the following: none, x, y,
                     both.  If style is x, the width slave window
                     is  expanded.   If style is y, the height is
                     expanded. The default is none.

              -ipadx pixels
                     Specifies an extra padding  in  addition  to
                     the  width  requested  by  the slave window.
                     Pixels  can  be  any   value   accepted   by
                     Tk_GetPixels.  The default is 0.

              -ipady pixels
                     Specifies  an  extra  padding in addition to
                     the height requested by  the  slave  window.
                     Pixels   can   be   any  value  accepted  by
                     Tk_GetPixels.  The default is 0.

              -padx pixels
                     Specifies an extra padding to the  width  of
                     the span occupying the slave window.  Pixels
                     can be any value accepted  by  Tk_GetPixels.
                     The default is 0.

              -pady pixels
                     Specifies  an extra padding to the height of
                     the span occupying the slave window.  Pixels
                     can  be  any value accepted by Tk_GetPixels.
                     The default is 0.

              -reqheight height
                     Specifies limits for the requested height of
                     the  slave  window.  These  limits also con-
                     strain the amount of internal padding  given
                     to  the slave.  Height is a list of bounding
                     values.  See the section BOUNDING LIST  FOR-
                     MAT  for  a  description  of  this list.  By
                     default there are no constraints.

              -reqwidth width
                     Specifies the limits of the  width  which  a
                     slave  may request. These limits also affect
                     the amount of internal padding given to  the
                     slave.   Width is a list of bounding values.
                     See the section BOUNDING LIST FORMAT  for  a
                     description  of this list.  By default there
                     are no constraints.

              -rowspan number
                     Specifies the number of rows spanned by  the
                     slave window. The default span is 1.

       blt_table forget slave
              Requests  that  slave  no  longer have its geometry
              managed.  Slave is the pathname of the window  cur-
              rently  managed  by  some table. The window will be
              unmapped so  that  it  no  longer  appears  on  the
              screen.   If  slave is not currently managed by any
              table, an error message is returned, otherwise  the
              empty string.

       blt_table info slave
              Returns  a list of the current non-default configu-
              ration options of for slave.  Slave is the pathname
              of the window currently managed by some table.  The
              list is exactly in the form that might be specified
              to  blt_table  configure  command.  If slave is not
              currently managed by any table, an error message is
              returned.

       blt_table masters ?pattern?
              Returns  a list of pathnames for all master windows
              matching pattern.  If the pattern argument  is  not
              present,  then  the names of all the master windows
              are returned.

       blt_table row master configure row ?options...?
              Queries or modifies the  configuration  options  of
              the  row specified by row. Row may be in one of two
              forms; all (indicating all rows) or a list  of  the
              row  indices to be configured.  Option may have any
              of the values accepted by the following:

              -height height
                     Specifies the limits of the height which the
                     row  may  expand  or shrink to.  Height is a
                     list of bounding values.   See  the  section
                     BOUNDING  LIST  FORMAT  for a description of
                     this list.  By default  there  are  no  con-
                     straints.

              -pady pixels
                     Specifies  an  extra  padding  to the normal
                     height of the row.  Pixels can be any  value
                     accepted   by   Tk_GetPixels.   The  default
                     padding is 0.

              -resize mode
                     Indicates that the row can expand or  shrink
                     from  its  normal  height  when the table is
                     resized.  Mode must be one of the following:
                     none,  expand,  shrink, or both.  If mode is
                     expand the height of the row is expanded  if
                     there  is  extra space in the master window.
                     If style is shrink its height may be reduced
                     beyond  its  normal  height  if there is not
                     enough space in the master.  The default  is
                     none.

       blt_table row master dimension
              Returns the number of rows in the table.

       blt_table row master info row ?options...?
              Returns a list of the configuration options for the
              rows specified.  RowIndex may  be  in  one  of  two
              forms;  all  (indicating all rows) or a list of row
              indices.  The row indices may themselves be numeric
              expressions.
       blt_table row master sizes rowIndex
              Returns  the  sizes of the given rows in the table.
              RowIndex may be in one of two forms; all  (indicat-
              ing all rows) or a list of the row indices.

       blt_table slaves master ?pattern?
              Returns  a  list of pathnames for all slave windows
              managed by master matching pattern.  If the pattern
              argument  is not present, then the names of all the
              slave windows are returned.  Master is the pathname
              of  a  master  window.  If master is not the master
              window of any table, an error message is  returned.

BOUNDING LIST FORMAT
       Constraints  for  various  options (-reqheight, -reqwidth,
       -height, and -width) are specified by supplying a bounding
       list  of values.  Each value must be in a form accepted by
       Tk_GetPixels.  The interpretation of this  list  is  based
       upon the number of values it contains:

              {}     Empty list. No bounding is performed.

              { x }  Set  the  size of the window or partition at
                     x. The size of the partition or window  can-
                     not grow or shrink.

              { min max }
                     Bound  the  size  of the window or partition
                     between min and max.

              { min max nom}
                     Bound the size of the  window  or  partition
                     between  min  and max.  In addition, set the
                     normal size to nom.
       The maximum bound max can also  be  specified  as  Inf  to
       indicate  a  unlimited  maximum bound.  This can be useful
       when you wish only to set the minimum or nominal size of a
       window or partition.

EXAMPLE
       The  following  example arranges a canvas, two scrollbars,
       and a title in a frame.

              blt_table .frame \
                   .title 0,0 -columnspan 2 -anchor center \
                   .canvas 1,0 -fill both \
                   .vscroll 1,1 -fill y \
                   .hscroll 2,0 -fill x
              blt_table column .frame configure 1 -resize none
              blt_table row .frame configure 2 -resize none

       The rows and columns containing the scrollbars are  frozen
       at  their  normal  size,  so  that  even  if  the frame is
       resized, the scrollbars will remain the same width.
BUGS
       There is no warning or error if  a  window  is  already  a
       slave  or  master,  managed  by  another  geometry manager
       (there currently is no way to properly detect this).  Typ-
       ically,  the  window will be repositioned by both geometry
       managers, ad infinitum.  The only  recourse  is  to  avoid
       doing this.

KEYWORDS
       frame, geometry manager, location, table, size
