NAME
       blt_bgexec - Run Unix commands in the background

SYNOPSIS
       blt_bgexec ?switches? varname arg ?arg ...?

       blt_bgexec ?switches? arg ?arg ...?

DESCRIPTION
       This  command  executes  one  or more Unix commands in the
       background as subprocesses, storing the output of the last
       subprocess in the variable varname after it has completed.
       This allows Unix commands to be  run  in  the  background,
       while  still  collecting  their  output, to notify the Tcl
       interpreter when they terminate.

       This command, used in conjunction with tkwait, is particu-
       larly  useful  for  handling Tk events while waiting for a
       running UNIX program to finish.

              blt_bgexec varname command args
              tkwait variable varname

       This allows expose events can be handled while waiting for
       one or more Unix commands to finish.  The program may also
       continue, possibly animating a busy cursor or icon,  while
       waiting for the variable varname to be set.  After all the
       subprocesses have completed, blt_bgexec will set  varname,
       triggering  tkwait  to  return.   Varname will contain the
       output of the last subprocess.

       If the initial arguments to blt_bgexec start with  -  then
       they are treated as command-line switches and are not part
       of the variable name or pipeline specification.  The  fol-
       lowing switches are currently supported:

       -keepnewline Specifies  that  a trailing newline should be
                    retained in the pipeline's output. Normally a
                    trailing newline will be deleted.

       -killsignal number
                    Specifies the number of the signal to be sent
                    to the Unix subprocesses when cleaning up. If
                    number  is  0,  then no signals are sent.  By
                    default,  subprocesses  are  sent  signal   1
                    (SIGHUP).

       -errorvar string
                    Specifies the name of a global variable to be
                    set with the contents of standard error after
                    the last subprocess has completed.

       -outputvar string
                    Specifies the name of a global variable to be
                    set with  the  contents  of  standard  output
                    after  the last subprocess has completed.  If
                    the  command-line  argument  varname  is  not
                    specified, then this switch must be set.

       -statusvar string
                    Specifies the name of a global variable to be
                    set with the status of the last subprocess to
                    complete.   This  contents  will be a list of
                    status information in the form status  token,
                    exit code, and description.

       -updatevar string
                    Specifies the name of a global variable which
                    is appended with the standard output  of  the
                    last subprocess.  This variable is updated as
                    data becomes available (i.e.  read  from  the
                    pipeline),  unlike varname which is set after
                    the last subprocess has completed.

       --           Marks the end of switches.  The argument fol-
                    lowing this one will be treated as the output
                    variable name varName or the  start  of  Unix
                    command even if it starts with a -.

       Command  and  args  may be in any form accepted by the Tcl
       exec command.  You can also prematurely terminate the sub-
       processes  by  setting varname before the last command has
       completed.  Each subprocess will  be  sent  a  termination
       signal (see the -killsignal option).

BUGS
       Care must be taken to prevent an application from preempt-
       ing itself by further user-interactions  (such  as  button
       clicks).   The  blt_busy  command  is very useful in these
       situations (see the blt_busy manual).

KEYWORDS
       exec, background
