NAME
       fscale  -  Create and manipulate floating-point scale wid-
       gets

SYNOPSIS
       fscale pathName ?options?

STANDARD OPTIONS
       activeForeground               borderWidth     fontorient
       background      cursor         foreground      relief

       See the ``options'' manual entry for details on the  stan-
       dard options.

WIDGET-SPECIFIC OPTIONS
       Name:           command
       Class:          Command
       Command-Line Switch:-command

              Specifies  the  prefix  of  a Tcl command to invoke
              whenever the value of the scale is changed interac-
              tively.  The actual command consists of this option
              followed by a space and a number.  The number indi-
              cates the new value of the scale.

       Name:           digits
       Class:          Digits
       Command-Line Switch:-digits

              Controls  how many significant digits are displayed
              for numeric values (the tick marks and  the  slider
              value).  The default value is 0.  Zero and negative
              values indicate that an appropriate number of  dig-
              its should be calculated based on the scale's reso-
              lution, its length, and the span of values it  cov-
              ers.

       Name:           from
       Class:          From
       Command-Line Switch:-from

              Specifies  the  value  corresponding to the left or
              top end of the  scale.   May  be  a  floating-point
              value.

       Name:           label
       Class:          Label
       Command-Line Switch:-label

              Specifies a string to displayed  as a label for the
              scale.  For vertical scales the label is  displayed
              just to the right of the top end of the scale.  For
              horizontal scales the label is displayed just above
              the left end of the scale.
       Name:           length
       Class:          Length
       Command-Line Switch:-length

              Specifies  the  desired long dimension of the scale
              in screen units (i.e. any of the  forms  acceptable
              to  Tk_GetPixels).  For vertical scales this is the
              scale's height;  for horizontal scales  it  is  the
              scale's width.

       Name:           resolution
       Class:          Resolution
       Command-Line Switch:-resolution

              Specifies  that  the scale should work in multiples
              of the specified resolution.  The values given  for
              the  from, to, and tickInterval options are rounded
              to a multiple of the resolution, as  is  the  scale
              value.   The  default  value  is 1, which gives the
              same behaviour as an integer-only scale widget.   A
              value of zero specifies that the rounding should be
              disabled.

       Name:           showValue
       Class:          ShowValue
       Command-Line Switch:-showvalue

              Specifies a boolean value indicating whether or not
              the  current value of the scale is to be displayed.

       Name:           sliderForeground
       Class:          sliderForeground
       Command-Line Switch:-sliderforeground

              Specifies the color to use for drawing  the  slider
              under  normal conditions.  When the mouse is in the
              slider window then the slider's color is determined
              by the activeForeground option.

       Name:           sliderLength
       Class:          SliderLength
       Command-Line Switch:-sliderlength

              Specfies the size of the slider, measured in screen
              units along the slider's long dimension.  The value
              may  be specified in any of the forms acceptable to
              Tk_GetPixels.

       Name:           state
       Class:          State
       Command-Line Switch:-state

              Specifies one of two states for the scale:   normal
              or  disabled.   If  the  scale is disabled then the
              value may not be changed and the scale won't  acti-
              vate when the mouse enters it.

       Name:           tickInterval
       Class:          TickInterval
       Command-Line Switch:-tickinterval

              Determines the spacing between numerical tick-marks
              displayed below or to the left of the  slider.   If
              specified  as  0,  then  no tick-marks will be dis-
              played.

       Name:           to
       Class:          To
       Command-Line Switch:-to

              Specifies the value corresponding to the  right  or
              bottom  end  of the scale.  May be a floating-point
              value.  This value  may  be  either  less  than  or
              greater than the from option.

       Name:           variable
       Class:          Variable
       Command-Line Switch:-variable

              Specifies  the  name of global variable whose value
              should track the value of the scale.   Setting  the
              variable  will update the scale value; changing the
              scale value will set the variable to the new value.

       Name:           width
       Class:          Width
       Command-Line Switch:-width

              Specifies the desired narrow dimension of the scale
              in screen units (i.e. any of the  forms  acceptable
              to  Tk_GetPixels).  For vertical scales this is the
              scale's width;  for horizontal scales this  is  the
              scale's height.


DESCRIPTION
       The  fscale  command  creates  a  new window (given by the
       pathName argument) and  makes  it  into  a  floating-point
       scale widget.  Additional options, described above, may be
       specified on the command line or in the option database to
       configure  aspects of the scale such as its colors, orien-
       tation, and relief.  The fscale command returns its  path-
       Name argument.  At the time this command is invoked, there
       must not exist a window  named  pathName,  but  pathName's
       parent must exist.

       A scale is a widget that displays a rectangular region and
       a small slider.  The rectangular region corresponds  to  a
       range of floating-point values (determined by the from and
       to options), and the position of the slider selects a par-
       ticular  value.   The  slider's  position  (and  hence the
       scale's value) may be adjusted  by  clicking  or  dragging
       with the mouse as described in the BINDINGS section below.
       Whenever the scale's value is changed, a  Tcl  command  is
       invoked  (using the command option) to notify other inter-
       ested widgets of the change.

       Three annotations may be displayed in a scale  widget:   a
       label  appearing  at the top-left of the widget (top-right
       for vertical scales), a number displayed  just  underneath
       the  slider  (just  to the left of the slider for vertical
       scales), and a collection  of  numerical  tick-marks  just
       underneath the current value (just to the left of the cur-
       rent value for vertical  scales).   Each  of  these  three
       annotations  may  be selectively enabled or disabled using
       the configuration options.


WIDGET COMMAND
       The fscale command creates a new Tcl command whose name is
       pathName.   This  command  may  be  used to invoke various
       operations on the widget.  It has  the  following  general
       form:

              pathName option ?arg arg ...?
       Option  and  the  args determine the exact behavior of the
       command.  The following commands are  possible  for  scale
       widgets:

       pathName configure ?option? ?value option value ...?
              Query  or  modify  the configuration options of the
              widget.  If no option is specified, returns a  list
              describing  all  of the available options for path-
              Name (see Tk_ConfigureInfo for information  on  the
              format  of this list).  If option is specified with
              no value, then the command returns a list  describ-
              ing the one named option (this list will be identi-
              cal to  the  corresponding  sublist  of  the  value
              returned  if  no  option  is specified).  If one or
              more option-value pairs  are  specified,  then  the
              command modifies the given widget option(s) to have
              the given  value(s);   in  this  case  the  command
              returns  an  empty  string.  Option may have any of
              the values accepted by the fscale command.

       pathName get
              Returns a decimal string giving the  current  value
              of the scale.

       pathName set value
              This command is invoked to change the current value
              of the scale, and hence the position at  which  the
              slider is displayed.  Value gives the new value for
              the scale.


BINDINGS
       When a new scale is created, it  is  given  the  following
       initial behavior by default:

       <Enter>             Change   the  slider  display  to  use
                           activeForeground  instead  of  slider-
                           Foreground.

       <Leave>             Reset  the slider display to use slid-
                           erForeground  instead  of  activeFore-
                           ground.

       <ButtonPress-1>     Change  the slider display so that the
                           slider  appears  sunken  rather   than
                           raised.   Move  the slider (and adjust
                           the scale's value)  to  correspond  to
                           the current mouse position.

       <Button1-Motion>    Move   the   slider  (and  adjust  the
                           scale's value) to  correspond  to  the
                           current mouse position.

       <ButtonRelease-1>   Reset  the  slider display so that the
                           slider appears raised again.


KEYWORDS
       scale, widget
