NAME
       tkgs - Create and manipulate tkgs widgets

SYNOPSIS
       tkgs pathName ?options?

STANDARD OPTIONS
       background      height         width
       borderwidth     relief

       See  the ``options'' manual entry for details on the stan-
       dard options.

WIDGET-SPECIFIC OPTIONS
       Name:           bbox
       Class:          Bbox
       Command-Line Switch:           -bbox

              This is a list with  four  numbers  specifying  the
              bounding   box   to   be  displayed  (this  is  the
              postscript bounding box).

       Name:           command
       Class:          Command
       Command-Line Switch:           -command

              Specifies  the  ghostscript  executable   that   is
              called.   The   default  command  is  ''gs  -dQUIET
              -dNOPAUSE -g${width}x${height} ${file}''. There are
              several variables that can be specified in the com-
              mand. The variables width and height  are  replaced
              by  the specified widget size. The variable file is
              replaced by the filename that should be  displayed.

       Name:           file
       Class:          File
       Command-Line Switch:           -file

              Specifies   the   file   that   is  loaded  in  the
              ghostscript when the widget is created.

       Name:           orient
       Class:          Orientation
       Command-Line Switch:           -orient

              Specifies  the   orientation   of   the   displayed
              postscript  file.   This  is an integer with one of
              the following values: 0, 90, 180, or 270.

       Name:           xDpi
       Class:          XDpi
       Command-Line Switch:           -xdpi

              Specifies the x resolution of the display.
       Name:           yDpi
       Class:          YDpi
       Command-Line Switch:           -ydpi

              Specifies the y resolution of the display.


DESCRIPTION
       The tkgs command creates a new window (given by the  path-
       Name  argument)  and  makes  it into a tkgs widget.  Addi-
       tional options, as described above, may  be  specified  on
       the  command  line  or in the option database to configure
       aspects of the tkgs such as its default  background  color
       and relief.  The tkgs command returns the path name of the
       new window.

       A tkgs widget displays a postscript document.


WIDGET COMMAND
       The tkgs command creates a new Tcl  command  the  name  of
       which  is  the same as the path name of the tkgs's window.
       This command may be used to invoke various  operations  on
       the widget. It has the following general form:

              pathName option ?arg arg ...?
       PathName is the name of the command. It is the same as the
       tkgs widget's path name. Option and the args determine the
       exact behavior of the command.  The following commands are
       possible for tkgs widgets:

       pathName configure ?option? ?value option value ...?
              Queries or modifies the  configuration  options  of
              the  widget.   If no option is specified, returns a
              list describing all available options for  pathName
              (see Tk_ConfigureInfo for information on the format
              of this list).  If  option  is  specified  with  no
              value,  the  command  returns a list describing the
              one named "option" (this list will be identical  to
              the  corresponding sublist of the value returned if
              no  option  is  specified).    If   one   or   more
              option-value pairs are specified, the command modi-
              fies the given widget option(s) to have  the  given
              value(s);  in  this  case,  the  command returns an
              empty string.  Option may have any  of  the  values
              accepted by the tkgs command.

       pathName redisplay
              This command redisplays the widget.


BINDINGS
       The  tkgs  widget does not allow special bindings. This is
       because reparenting is used which means  that  the  events
       are passed directly to the child widget.


IMPLEMENTATION
       I  tried  to  keep the changes to Tk as small as possible.
       The changes to Tk only add  a  new  command  to  Tk  (xac-
       cess(n)).  If  you don't use the new command, you will not
       notice  any  changes  compared  to  the   standard   wish.
       Ghostscript is not modified.

       The  basic  concept of this widget is that the tkgs widget
       provides a pixmap id that ghostscript uses  for  its  dis-
       playing instead of making a new window.


PERFORMANCE ISSUES
       Performance is a critical point with the tkgs widget. Each
       created widget has a complete  ghostscript  process.  That
       means you should be careful with the number of widgets.


BUGS
       o      It  is  only  possible to display the first page in
              the postscript document.

       o      Surely, there are many bugs.


KEYWORDS
       ghostscript, widget, xaccess
