NAME
       colorfocus - Control the colormap focus of an application

SYNOPSIS
       colorfocus window
       colorfocus remove window


DESCRIPTION
       The  colorfocus  command is used to manage the Tk colormap
       focus.  An application may have  windows  which  use  col-
       ormaps  other than the default.  Each screen of an X work-
       station has a limit, imposed by the hardware, on how  many
       different  colormaps  may  be installed at one time; often
       this limit is one.  If the windows on a  screen  use  more
       colormaps  than  are  available  on  that  screen, then an
       appropriate `colormap focus' policy  must  be  applied  to
       determine which windows have their colormaps installed.

       The  window manager ultimately controls the colormap focus
       policy, but applications can express  a  preference  about
       which  of  their  subwindows  should  have their colormaps
       installed by means of  the  WM_COLORMAP_WINDOWS  property.
       This  property  takes  the  form  of  a list of windows in
       decreasing order of importance to the application of  hav-
       ing the window's colormap installed.

       Tk  automatically  creates and maintains such a list when-
       ever any window in the application uses a  colormap  other
       than  the default.  The colorfocus command allows the user
       to manipulate this list.  Tk maintains  a  list  for  each
       display  screen  used  by  the  application.  This gives a
       global colormap focus over all top-level  windows  of  the
       application  on  a  particular screen, rather than a local
       focus for each top-level window.  This is consistent  with
       the way that Tk manages the input focus.

       The colorfocus command has two forms:

       colorfocus window
              This form moves window to the front of the list for
              its screen (adding it if it is not already  in  the
              list).   This  should  cause  the window manager to
              install window's colormap whenever it  assigns  the
              colormap  focus  to  any  top-level  window of this
              application on the same screen.

       colorfocus remove window
              This form removes window  from  the  list  for  its
              screen, in effect telling the window manager not to
              install its colormap.
KEYWORDS
       colormap, focus, window manager
