NAME
       pinfo - manipulate pixmaps

SYNOPSIS
       pinfo command ?arg? ?arg?


DESCRIPTION
       The  pinfo  command  is used to manipulate pixmaps via the
       tcl language. It can take any of  a  number  of  different
       forms, depending on the command argument.  The legal forms
       are:

       pinfo cache name status
              If no pixmap name is specified, a list of all  cur-
              rently cached pixmaps is returned. If a pixmap name
              is given,  the  cache  status  of  this  pixmap  is
              returned,   and  if  a  status  is  specified,  the
              pixmap's cache status is set to this boolean value.
              Caching  means  that the pixmap is not removed when
              it is no longer used. Instead, it remains in the Tk
              hash  table  for later use. This can reduce loading
              time when big pixmaps are often displayed/hidden.

       pinfo cacheconfig option value
              This command allows the manipulation of the  pixmap
              caching  mechanism. The only option that is allowed
              is -defaultstatus. If no new  value  is  specified,
              the  current default cache status is returned. Oth-
              erwise, the default cache  status  is  set  to  the
              given boolean value. This status indicates which is
              the default cache status for loaded pixmaps.

       pinfo clipmaskdata name
              This command  returns  the  clipmask  data  of  the
              pixmap  with  the  name  name.  The  format  of the
              returned data is a list. The first element  of  the
              list  is  a  string with three elements: the width,
              the height and the depth of the bitmap.  The second
              element  of the list contains the data defining the
              bitmap in standard X11 bitmap format. If no  pixmap
              exists   with  the  name  name  then  an  error  is
              returned. If the pixmap  has  no  clip  mask,  then
              "none" is returned.

       pinfo data name format
              This  command  returns  the data of the pixmap with
              the name name. The format of the returned data is a
              list.  The  first  element  of the list is a string
              with four elements: the width, the height  and  the
              depth of the pixmap. The fourth element is the for-
              mat of the pixmap data. A pixmap with  a  depth  of
              more  than 1 has the depth value 0. The second ele-
              ment of the list contains  the  data  defining  the
              pixmap.  The type of the data can be specified with
              the format option. Currently only bitmap  and  xpm3
              are supported.

       pinfo define name dataList
              This  command  defines  a  new pixmap with the name
              name.  The format of the list containing  the  data
              for  the pixmap is the same as returned by the com-
              mand pinfo data. If the data string is empty  (i.e.
              {{20  30  8 xpm3} {}}), an empty pixmap is created.
              The command returns a decimal string giving the X11
              pixmap ID of the newly created pixmap.

       pinfo depth name
              Returns  a  decimal  string giving the depth of the
              pixmap with the name name.   If  no  pixmap  exists
              with the name name, then "0" is returned.

       pinfo formats ?specifier?
              Returns  a list of the supported pixmap formats. If
              specifier is empty all  formats  are  returned.  If
              specifier  is  set to all, all formats that support
              the complete functionality are returned. The speci-
              fiers  get,  put, toascii and topixmap restrict the
              returned list to those formats supporting the given
              functionality.

       pinfo get name
              Returns  a  decimal string giving the X11 pixmap ID
              of the pixmap with the  name  name.   This  command
              loads a pixmap if the user has specified a filename
              to load. If no pixmap exists with the name name and
              no pixmap can be loaded, then "none" is returned.

       pinfo height name
              Returns  a  decimal string giving the height of the
              pixmap with the name name.   If  no  pixmap  exists
              with the name name then "0" is returned.

       pinfo names
              Returns a list of all known pixmap names.

       pinfo save name fileName format
              Saves  the  given  pixmap into the file named file-
              Name.  The output format,  specified  with  format,
              can  be  bitmap, xpm3, or annother supported pixmap
              format.

       pinfo undefine name
              Undefines the pixmap with the name name.  To  unde-
              fine  means  that it is removed from the name list.
              The pixmap is not freed.
       pinfo width name
              Returns a decimal string giving the  width  of  the
              pixmap  with  the  name  name.  If no pixmap exists
              with the name name, then "0" is returned.


KEYWORDS
       pinfo, Xpm3
