NAME
       xaccess - Access to various X functions from Tcl

SYNOPSIS
       xaccess command ?options?

DESCRIPTION
       The xaccess command provides access to certain X functions
       like sending events, manipulation of  properties,  reading
       of  the  X  window  structure and the X bell. The commands
       were written to allow the embedding of  external  applica-
       tions into Tk.

       For  almost  all xaccess commands, the user has to specify
       an X window id (with the -windowid option) or a Tk  widget
       pathname (with the -widget option).

       The following commands can be specified:

       eventbuttonpress ?options?
              A  buttonpressed  event  is sent, where the -button
              parameter specifies which button should be pressed.
              Accepted values are numbers from 1 to 5. The -state
              parameter selects a certain button mask. The  value
              of  this  paramter  is  one  of the usual Modifiers
              (Control, Shift, Lock, Button?, Mod?).

       eventbuttonrelease ?options?
              A buttonreleased event is sent, where  the  -button
              parameter   specifies   which   button   should  be
              released. The parameters are the same  as  for  the
              buttonpressed event.

       eventclientmessage ?options?
              When  sending  a  clientmessage event, the user can
              define the format of the message with  the  -format
              option. The -messagetype or -messagetypename speci-
              fies an atom id or atom name that should  be  sent.
              For  a detailed description of the parameters, take
              a look at the X event description.

       eventconfigure ?options?
              A configure event allows the setting of the follow-
              ing options: the -x, -y, -width, -height dimensions
              of the window. The -borderwidth option  allows  the
              setting of the window's borderwidth. The selected X
              window is stacked above the X window selected  with
              the  -abovewindowid  or  -abovewidget  options. The
              option -overrideredirect allows the  specifying  of
              the  overrideredirect  attribute  of the selected X
              window. For a detailed description of  the  parame-
              ters, take a look at the X event description.
       eventexpose ?options?
              For  the expose event the user can specify the fol-
              lowing options (with the same meaning  as  for  the
              configure event): -x, -y, -width, -height.

       eventkeypress ?options?
              A  keypressed  event  is  sent,  where  the -keysym
              parameter specifies which key  should  be  pressed.
              Accepted values are all keysyms that are defined in
              <X11/keysymdefs.h>. The  -state  parameter  selects
              the  a certain key mask. The value of this paramter
              is one of  the  usual  Modifiers  (Control,  Shift,
              Lock, Button?, Mod?).

       eventkeyrelease ?options?
              A  keyreleased  event  is  sent,  where the -keysym
              parameter specifies which key should  be  released.
              The  parameters  are the same as for the keypressed
              event.

       eventmap ?options?
              The map event knows the following options (with the
              same meaning as for the configure event): -overrid-
              eredirect.

       eventmotion ?options?
              With this  event,  the  user  can  move  the  mouse
              pointer  to a new location. Settable parameters are
              -x, -y, -xroot, -yroot and -relative. The -relative
              option  specifies  whether or not the mouse pointer
              is placed referring to the current position or with
              absolute coordinates. When the -windowid or -widget
              options are set, the mouse pointer is placed  rela-
              tive  to  that  window. The -interval option can be
              used to specify a move distance for the mouse.  The
              mouse  pointer  will  be  moved the given amount of
              pixels, until the final position  is  reached.  The
              value  is  given  as a float (although only integer
              positions are displayed). With values smaller  than
              1, the mouse pointer motion is slowed down.

       eventreparent ?options?
              With  the  reparent  event, the specified window is
              reparented to the window specified with the -paren-
              twindowid or -parentwidget option.

       propget ?options?
              If  the  user  does not specify any options for the
              propget  command  besides  the  window  id  (widget
              name), all property ids attached to that window are
              returned. To retrieve the  value  of  one  specific
              property, the user can specify the property id with
              the option -property, or the property name with the
              option -propertyname. Only properties with the type
              string can be retrieved. The returned  value  is  a
              list with three or more elements. The first element
              is the name of the property, the second element  is
              the  type  of  the property, and the following ele-
              ments are the values of the property (usually  only
              one  value, but if there are '\0' characters in the
              string, the value is split into separate elements).
              The  following  options can be optionally specified
              (take a look at the specification of  the  XGetWin-
              dowProperty(3X)   function):   -longoffset,   -lon-
              glength, -delete, -type.

       propchange ?options?
              To change the value of a property (or to  create  a
              new  property), the propchange command is used. The
              specified property (-property or -propertyname)  is
              created or changed. The user can define how the new
              data is attached to the  property  with  the  -mode
              option.     Possible    values    are   ''append'',
              ''prepend'' or ''replace''.  The data  that  should
              be attached is specified with the -data option. The
              -numelements defaults to the  length  of  the  data
              string,  but can also be set directly.  The default
              type  (STRING)  can  be  changed  with  the   -type
              resource.  All types that are available for proper-
              ties can be specified  (well,  almost  all...).  By
              default,  the format of the data is 8 bit, but this
              can be changed with the -format option. Take a look
              at  the  specification  of  the XChangeProperty(3X)
              function to  get  a  complete  description  of  the
              parameters.

       propdelete ?options?
              The  propdelete  command deletes the named property
              (-property or -propertyname) from the  specified  X
              window.

       sendstring ?options?
              The  sendstring  command sends a complete string to
              the specified X window.  The  string  is  specified
              with  the  -data option, and can contain a standard
              character (e.g. "abCDe+-?"), modifiers enclosed  in
              <>  (e.g. "ab<Control>n"), keysyms also enclosed in
              <> (e.g. "ab<Enter>"),  and  the  special  modifier
              extensions  "Press"  and "Release" (e.g. "ab<Press-
              Shift>aaa<Release-Shift>").  The  escape  sequences
              '\t'  (for tabulator), '\r' (for return), '\n' (for
              return),  and  '\b'  (for   backspace)   are   also
              accepted. The -interval option can be used to add a
              delay to the keypress events (to emulate some  kind
              of  user  speed typing). The value is given in sec-
              onds.
       xbell ?options?
              With the xbell command, the X  bell  is  rung.  The
              option  -volume  allows  it  to set the volume. The
              option -interval can be used to specify a  list  of
              integer  values  (seconds)  that form a sequence of
              bell rings.

       xwinchilds ?options?
              With the xwinchilds command, the X window ids  that
              are   children  of  the  passed  X  window  id  are
              returned.

       xwinname ?options?
              With the xwinname command, the name attached to  an
              X window is retrieved (if there is one).

       xwinparent ?options?
              With  the  xwinparent command, the X window id that
              is  the  parent  of  the  passed  X  window  id  is
              returned.

       xwinroot ?options?
              With  the xwinroot command, the X window id that is
              the root of the passed X window id is returned.


BUGS
       o      Surely, there are many bugs.


KEYWORDS
       X,  XSendEvent(3X),  XReparentWindow(3X),  XQueryTree(3X),
       XFetchName(3X),    XGetWindowProperty(3X),    XChangeProp-
       erty(3X), XWarpPointer(3X)
