NAME
       blt_intro - Introduction to the BLT library

DESCRIPTION
       BLT is a library of extensions to the Tk library.  It adds
       new commands and variables (all prefixed by "blt_") to the
       application's interpreter.


COMMANDS
       The  following  commands are added to the interpreter from
       the BLT library:

       blt_drag&drop  Provides a drag-and-drop facility  for  Tk.
                      Information (represented by a token window)
                      can be dragged to and from any  Tk  window,
                      including  those of another Tk application.
                      blt_drag&drop  acts   as   a   coordinator,
                      directing  Tk  send  commands  between  (or
                      within) TCL/Tk applications.

       blt_htext      A simple hypertext  widget.  Combines  text
                      and  Tk  widgets  into a single scroll-able
                      window.  Tcl commands can be embedded  into
                      text,  which  are  invoked  as  the text is
                      parsed.  In addition,  Tk  widgets  can  be
                      appended to the window at the current point
                      in the text.  blt_htext can be also used to
                      create scrolled windows of Tk widgets.

       blt_graph      A  2D  plotting widget.  Plots two variable
                      data in a window with  an  optional  legend
                      and annotations.   It has of several compo-
                      nents; coordinate axes, crosshairs, a  leg-
                      end, and a collection of elements and tags.

       blt_barchart   A barchart widget.  Plots two-variable data
                      as  rectangular  bars  in a window.  The x-
                      coordinate values designate the position of
                      the  bar  along  the  x-axis,  while the y-
                      coordinate values designate the  magnitude.
                      The blt_barchart widget has of several com-
                      ponents;  coordinate  axes,  crosshairs,  a
                      legend,  and  a  collection of elements and
                      tags.

       blt_table      A table geometry manager for Tk.  You spec-
                      ify  window  placements as table row,column
                      positions and windows can also span  multi-
                      ple  rows  or  columns.   It  also has many
                      options for setting and/or bounding  window
                      sizes.

       blt_bitmap     Reads  and  writes bitmaps from Tcl.  New X
                      bitmaps can be defined on-the-fly from Tcl,
                      obviating  the  need  to copy around bitmap
                      files.   Other  options  query   loaded   X
                      bitmap's dimensions and data.

       blt_bgexec     Like  Tcl's exec command, blt_bgexec runs a
                      pipeline of  Unix  commands  in  the  back-
                      ground.   Unlike  exec,  the  output of the
                      last process is collected and a global  Tcl
                      variable   is   set  upon  its  completion.
                      blt_bgexec can be used with tkwait to  wait
                      for  Unix  commands  to  finish while still
                      handling expose events.  Intermediate  out-
                      put is also available while the pipeline is
                      active.

       blt_busy       Creates  a  "busy  window"  which  prevents
                      user-interaction  when  an  application  is
                      busy.  The busy  window  also  provides  an
                      easy  way  to  have  temporary busy cursors
                      (such as a watch or hourglass).

       blt_win        Raise, lower, map, or,  unmap  any  window.
                      The  raise  and  lower functions are useful
                      for stacking windows above or  below  "busy
                      windows".

       blt_watch      Arranges  for  Tcl  procedures to be called
                      before and/or after the execution of  every
                      Tcl  command.  This  command may be used in
                      the logging, profiling, or tracing  of  Tcl
                      code.

       blt_debug      A  simple Tcl command tracing facility use-
                      ful for debugging Tcl code.  Displays  each
                      Tcl  command  before and after substitution
                      along its level in the interpreter on stan-
                      dard error.

       blt_bell       Rings  the  keyboard  bell.  This is useful
                      when the application can't write to a  tty.

       blt_cutbuffer  Manipulates X cutbuffer properties. This is
                      useful  for  communicating  with  other   X
                      applications  that  don't  properly  use  X
                      selections.

VARIABLES
       The following Tcl variables are either set or used by  BLT
       at various times in its execution:

       blt_library    This variable contains the name of a direc-
                      tory containing a library  of  Tcl  scripts
                      and other files related to BLT.  Currently,
                      this directory contains  the  blt_drag&drop
                      protocol  scripts and the PostScript prolog
                      used by blt_graph  and  blt_barchart.   The
                      value  of  this  variable is taken from the
                      BLT_LIBRARY environment  variable,  if  one
                      exists,  or  else from a default value com-
                      piled into the BLT library.

       blt_versions   This variable is set in the interpreter for
                      each  application.  It  is  an array of the
                      current version numbers for each of the BLT
                      commands  in  the  form major.minor.  Major
                      and minor are integers.  The major  version
                      number   increases   in  any  command  that
                      includes changes that are not backward com-
                      patible  (i.e.  whenever  existing applica-
                      tions and scripts may  have  to  change  to
                      work with the new release).  The minor ver-
                      sion number increases with each new release
                      of a command, except that it resets to zero
                      whenever the major version number  changes.
                      The array is indexed by the individual com-
                      mand name.

ADDING BLT TO YOUR APPLICATIONS
       It's easy to add BLT to an existing Tk  application.   BLT
       requires  no  patches or edits to the Tcl or Tk libraries.
       To add BLT, simply add the following code snippet to  your
       application's tkAppInit.c file.

              if (Blt_Init(interp) != TCL_OK) {
                  return TCL_ERROR;
              }
       Recompile  and  link  with  the BLT library (libBLT.a) and
       that's it.

BUGS
       Send    bug    reports,    correspondence,     etc.     to
       george.howlett@att.com

KEYWORDS
       BLT
